# Week 2A Notes (2/1/21)

## I. Welcome back
- Any questions about the course?
  - BTW: there won't be any extra credit in this course, so be sure to get all of the HW and Checkoffs submitted

<hr>

## II. Rapid Review of the first 3 "Core Skills"

- [CS #1 - "Client Tools and the HTTP Protocol"](../core-skills/1-client-tools-and-http-protocol.md)
  - a review of the basic HTTP protocol (we’ll go deeper later in the course):
    - HTTP methods
    - HTTP request headers
    - HTTP status line (and code)
    - HTTP response headers
  - made sure that you could use the **Network** tab under the Google Developer tools
  - and that you could also use Postman
  - and was one last use of FTP to post files (because we are quickly moving on to Heroku, which uses GitHub for deployment)
- [CS #2 - "GitHub and Heroku"](../core-skills/2-github-and-heroku.md)
  - This was all about getting started with Heroku:
    - Create A Heroku Account
    - Create a Heroku App
    - Create a GitHub repository
    - Then link them together
    - Modify the repository, and the changes will get pushed automatically
- [CS #3 - "Command-line Git & Cloning Repositories"](../core-skills/3-command-line-git.md)
  - unix commands (you only need to know a few)
  - unix shell shortcuts (use these!)
  - command-line git
    - `git clone <url>`
    - `git status`
    - `git add`
    - `git commit -m "message"`
    - `git push`
- [CS #4 - "Hello Node"](../core-skills/4-hello-node.md)
  - due tonight!
  - I suggest you hang around after class and start and/or finish it!
- [CS #5 - "First Node Web Server"](../core-skills/5-first-node-web-server.md)
  - due before next class
  - ditto!
  
<hr>

## III. Attendance
- Attendance/Intro
  - Taking attendance alphabetically
  - Be ready:
    - have your camera on
    - tell us what you prefer to be called
    - tell us one thing you’ve done recently (SFW!) such as:
      - someplace interesting you visited OR
      - a book you read, movie you saw, video game you beat OR
      - a co-op you were on OR ... (SFW!)
- As of right now, if you have completed Core Skills #1-#9  AND Simple HTTP HW (and received a grade for this HW), you are excused from class for the rest of the week. Everyone else is expected to be here on Wednesday:
  - BTW - ***don't get too used to only 1 required class a week :-)***
- What if you finish all of the above *prior* to Wednesday's class, are you excused from Wednesday?
  - NOPE!
  - But if you DO complete all of the above and I grade it before Wednesday's class, I will excuse you from Friday's class
  
<hr><hr>
  
| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
| :-\    |  [**IGME-430 Home**](../README.md) | [**Week 2B Notes**](2B.md)
