# Week 3A Notes (2/8/21)

## I. General Announcements

1) ALWAYS delete your **node_modules** folder before zipping and posting a node project folder (repository) to myCourses. Why? 
    - it's wasteful of storage space
    - it slows down uploads and downloads
    - if I am going to run your code locally, I will have to delete the existing **node_modules folder**, and will still have to re-download the modules - by typing `npm i` - because of architectural differences between the various flavors of Mac & PC

2) Going forward, you do NOT have to submit a CircleCI link to a dropbox (even if the PDF instructions say otherwise) - because I'll be looking to see if the CI tests passed by the "Green checkmark" on your GitHub repository. Clicking this checkmark takes me straight to your CircleCI page anyway.

<hr>

## II. Overview

- **Questions on *Simple HTTP HW*:**
  - [Simple HTTP HW Notes](../hw-notes/simple-http-hw.md)
  - what was "new":
    - creating your own modules with `require()` & `module.exports`
      - let's look at another way to write `module.exports`
    - the `fs` module and `readFileSync()` for loading static files:
      - our demos/Core Skills have been hard-coding the HTML files - LAME!
  - other concepts:
    - the main "request handler" function for the `.onRequest()` method of our server
      - note that 2 parameters are aways sent along - `request` and `response`
    - `npm test`
- **Upcoming HW Assignments:**
  - (Note: We will talk about the *Streaming Media HW* PDF next time - [Streaming Media HW Notes](../hw-notes/streaming-media-HW.md))
  - [Skill #10 - Debugging Node](../core-skills/10-debugging-node.md) - due tonight - super easy - let's run though it:
    - `node --inspect ./src/index.js`
    - chrome://inspect
    - test it out
    - let's also create a "chromeinspect" key in "scripts"
    - the purpose of this assignment is to teach you how to do common debugging acivities in Node - you need to have theis skill in your personal developer toolbox!
      - Debugging your code - do it! You now have `eslint` (`npm test`) which will help flag possible errors, and the Node.js debugger. Use them!
  - [Random Joke with tooling - checkoff](../checkoff-notes/random-joke-with-tooling-checkoff.md) - super easy - due tomorrow night:
    - has you adding `nodemon`, `eslint` (code validation), and *continuous integration* (CircleCI) to your random-joke web service
    - the purpose of this assignment is to review how to install these developer dependencies to your project
    - also, we will be assigning Project 1 next week, and you are going to be substantially upgrading *Random Joke* so that it will be a great Project 1 "starter"
  - [Skill #11 - Creating CommonJS Code Modules](../core-skills/11-creating-commonjs-code-modules.md) - due Wednesday night:
    - this walks through how to refactor the "Random Number" HW to create external modules (**htmlResponses.js** & **jsonResponses.js**) and thus better organize your code
  - [Homework - Random Jokes Plus](../hw-notes/HW-random-jokes-plus.md) - once again, this will be your Project 1 "starter" - it has many "phases", that come due next week, so work ahead:
    - Phase #1 - add your own modules
    - Phase #2 - Add a /random-jokes endpoint (Phase #1 & #2 count as a HW Assignment)
    - Phase #3 - Send back both XML & JSON
    - Phase #4 - Send back headers only, NOT content, when HEAD requests are made (Phase #3 & #4 count as a HW Assignment)
    
    

<hr><hr>

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
| [**Week 2C Notes**](2C.md)   |  [**IGME-430 Home**](../README.md) | [**Week 3B Notes**](3B.md)
