# Week 5B Notes (2/24/21)

## I. Reminders

- [Project 1 - API Powered App](../projects/project-1.md)
  - Deliverables:
    - **Project 1 Topic** - there is a discussion thread in myCourses that closes at the start of class 5B (if you did not submit your idea to the dicussion thread, email it to me ASAP)
    - **Project 1 - API Prototype** - due end of week 5 (see myCourses dropbox for exact due date/time and submission requirements)
    - **Project 1 - API Final** - due end of week 6 (see myCourses dropbox for exact due date/time and submission requirements)
- Non-sequitors:
  - Zoom Office Hours this week - see myCourses Announcements area for times and link
  
  
<hr>

## II. Completed Demo - POSTing Data & Body Parse

- Here is the demo and video (that you should have already watched)
  - Start code --> https://github.com/IGM-RichMedia-at-RIT/body-parse-example
  - Video --> [Rich Media 2 - Week 4.2 POST Requests and Body Parsing (41:50)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QY5sBCg6Ksg&feature=emb_logo)
  - The above video was assigned last week, you need this for project 1, watch it if you haven't yet

<hr>

## III. Here's a different POST demo

### III-A. POST requests & Status Codes
- First, what is a POST request good for? --> https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST
- Next, let's talk about some more HTTP status codes
- This is part of your [**HTTP API Study Guide HW**](../hw-notes/api-sg-hw.md)
- We will be returning the `200`, `201`, `204` and `400` status codes in today's demo - and you will need to return these in Project 1 as well
- Let's look at what these status codes mean


### III-B. Server demo
- Look for the **POST-DEMO-Start** file in myCourses
- We have a GET endpoint named `/get-users` - nothing new here
- We also have a POST endpoint named `/add-user` - this is all new!
- POSTing data (server-side code):
  - the relevant code is in **index.js** & **jsonResponses.js**
  - we will walk through it together

<hr>

## IV. Send data to the server with Postman
- need to to use the `POST` method
- need to send the data with a `Content-Type` of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`
- we will also walk though this with the debugger

<hr>

## V. Send data to the server with *old-school-post-form.html*

- No JavaScript!
- Works (fairly) well
- `<form>` docs --> https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/form
- Check out the `action` and `method` attributes, as well as the `<input type="submit">` button - these are unique to forms

<hr>

## VI. Next time

- Friday's class is *mandatory* (there isn't a "Get out of Jail" card available this week)
- We will use JavaScript to "Hijack" the form and instead use XHR to send the POST request and values to the server
- We will use JavaScript and regular `<input>` elements plus XHR to send the POST request and values to the server

<hr>

## VII. Next Week

- Monday 3/1 is a ***mandatory*** "work and ask questions" day
- Wednesday 3/3 is an *optional* "work and ask questions" day
- Friday 3/5 is an *optional* "work and ask questions" day

<hr><hr>

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
| [**Week 5A Notes**](5A.md)   |  [**IGME-430 Home**](../README.md) | [**Week 5C Notes**](5C.md)
